Add docs page to explain how to create jdaviz-readable products (#2228)
spacetelescope/jdaviz: docs/create_products.rst

.. _create_products:

Create Jdaviz-readable Products
===============================

Spectroscopic data products (1D, 2D, and 3D) can be loaded
in the different ``jdaviz`` configurations using

> essentially two methods, i.e. loading :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` objects, or loading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
essentially two methods, i.e., loading :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` objects or
```

from FITS files. Here, we list a few ways in which data can be packaged to be easily loaded
into a ``jdaviz`` configuration.

Data in a database
------------------

If the data are stored in a database, we recommend storing a :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` object
per entry. This would allow the user to query the data and visualize it in

> ``jdaviz`` with few lines of code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``jdaviz`` with few lines of code; also see :ref:`create_product_spectrum1d_obj`.
```

Data in FITS files
------------------

> If the data are stored as FITS files, we propose three options: the user can
> adopt any of the formats readable by specutils; or they can create their own
> specialized loader; or they can provide scripts to read the FITS products as
> :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the data are stored as FITS files, we propose three options:

* :ref:`create_product_specutils_loader`
* :ref:`create_product_dedicated_loader`
* :ref:`create_product_spectrum1d_obj`
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. _create_product_specutils_loader:

```

Using an available specutils loader
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Available loaders can be listed with the following commands:

.. code-block:: python

    from specutils import Spectrum1D
    Spectrum1D.read.list_formats()

The majority are fairly specific to missions and instruments. Four formats
are more generic and adaptable: ``ASCII``, ``ECSV``, ``tabular-fits``, and
``wcs1d-fits``. More information on how to create files that are readable by

> these loaders can be found on the `specutils github repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these loaders can be found on the `specutils GitHub repository
```

<https://github.com/astropy/specutils/tree/main/specutils/io/default_loaders>`_.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. _create_product_dedicated_loader:

```

Creating a dedicated loader
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `specutils documentation on how to create a custom loader
<https://specutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/custom_loading.html#creating-a-custom-loader>`_
is available. We are working on the necessary documentation to prompt
``jdaviz`` to recognize a custom loader developed in ``specutils``.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. _create_product_spectrum1d_obj:

```

Providing scripts to load the data as Spectrum1D objects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If none of the above is an acceptable option, the user can create the data
products with their custom format and provide scripts or Jupyter Notebooks
that show how to read the products and create :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` objects
that can be read into ``jdaviz``. More about
how to create :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` objects for the 1D, 2D, and 3D cases can be

> found in the corresponding "Importing data" sections of the various configurations.

Reviewer: This order is same as their ordering in Jdaviz sidebar.

```suggestion
found in the corresponding "Importing data" sections of the various configurations:

* :ref:`specviz-import-data`
* :ref:`cubeviz-import-data`
* :ref:`specviz2d-import-data`
* :ref:`mosviz-import-api`
```

.. _create_products:

> Create Jdaviz-readable Products

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creating Jdaviz-readable Products
```

Reviewer 2: This would be more consistent with other section titles.

> ===============================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=================================
```

.. _create_products:

Create Jdaviz-readable Products
===============================

Data products can be loaded in the different Jdaviz configurations using
various methods, e.g. loading :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` objects, loading
from fits files, or loading a set of fits files from a directory.
Here, we list a few ways in which data can be packaged to be easily loaded
into a ``jdaviz`` configuration.

Data in a database
------------------

If the data are stored in a database, we recommend storing a :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` object
per entry. This would allow the user to query the data and visualize it in
Jdaviz with few lines of code. This is an example with an imaginary database.

.. code-block:: python

>     from database import Client

Reviewer: This example looks awfully specific. Is this from NOIRLab Sparkle? Maybe better to just link to their doc for this part, and then go from there.

If you must have standalone example, better to use astroquery API that someone else can reproduce without installing NOIRLab specific software.

Author: I was hoping it would like generic enough. I'll remove the example.

    from jdaviz import Specviz

    client = Client()
    search = client.find(**options**)
    results = client.retrieve(search)
    spec1d = results[0]['Spectrum1D']

    specviz = Specviz()
    specviz.load_data(spec1d, data_label='my spectrum')
    specviz.show()

> Data in fits files

Reviewer: FITS is an acronym. Same comment applies to all similar occurrences.
```suggestion
Data in FITS files
```

Author: thanks, i will correct the rest.
